# Face-recognition-with-PC-BC-DIM-algorithm

This recognition method is proposed by my supervisor Dr.M.W.Spratling
New face dataset resized and aligned has been generated by using my automatic method. 
However, the format of new image is .jpg, in the step of face recognition program, format of image must be .pgm. Thus, i provide a code  for transforming .jpg to .pgm. Then the new dataset will be recognized successfully. This code (jpg2pgm.m) is modified by me.
In the root directory, run the command classify_images ('ORL', 31) for images with size of 92 by 112 ,117 by 135 , 64 by 64 and so on.
After then, 21 figures will be obtained. By changing the different datasets of att_faces, we can get different results under the condition of different size of images within dataset.

Open-source software, written in MATLAB, which performs all the experiments described in this article is available
for download from: http://www.corinet.org/mike/Code/pcbc_image_recognition.zip.

The original code is from:

Copyright (c) 2014, Masayuki Tanaka
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
      the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Face parts detection in matlab

The following Matlab project contains the source code and Matlab examples used for face parts detection. 
Run demo to try! This code is implimented based on CascadeObjectDetector of FrontalFaceCART, LeftEye, RightEye, Mouth, and Nose.

To meet the requirement of resiaing and aligning in this project, I have modified some area to generate an automatic program.

Automatically: 
run the demo, after alignment will be automatically generated in the root directory of images

att_faces is pgm format of ORL dataset

I mainly focus on modofying demo.m program to develop an automatic method.
if you want to change size of image, please open my_alignment_2points_demo.m to modify original dataset is in att_faces folder.
running demo.m , it will generate images resized and aligned, which will be saved in root dictionary

If you want to change the size of image, please modify face alignment program：my_alignment_2points_demo.m
run the getAlignedFace_demo.m 
main program：getAlignedFace_demo.m
mark eyes program：label_pts_demo.m
face alignment program：my_alignment_2points_demo.m


















































